The cybersecurity penetration testing basic step for wireless route and IoT, also simple example tool for reference.
You must use the more professional tool in practice.

This is the common security check list as following.
1. Check the device whether update firmware and software by OTA.
1.1 Analyze the firmware to check whether saved plaintext username and password in package.
    Use tool such as tar and strings on Linux, IDA Pro if possible.
1.2 Analyze the firmware to check whether has related remote server information such as login credential.
    Used tool such as tar and strings on Linux,, IDA Pro if possible.
1.3 Analyze the firmware to check whether used the vulerable library such as libc etc.
    Used tool such as tar, strings, strace, readelf, lsof on Linux.
1.4 Analyze the firmware to check whether hardcode the root's password since need overwrite flash file.
	Used tool such as tar, strings, readelf on Linux, IDA Pro if possible.
1.5 Analyze the firmware to check whether can modify it such as replace the vulnerable libc file then bypass integrity verification.
	Used tool such as tar, strings, realelf, md5sum/sha1sum on Linux.
1.6 Analyze the fireware to check whether invoke the OS command injection within application such as invoke 'system(argv[1])' without protected
    or directly invoke shell script on Linux platform etc.
    Used tool such as tar, strings, readelf on Linux, IDA Pro if possible.
1.7 Analyze the device whether erase all user data such as password after reset device.
1.8 Analyze the device whether restore default configuration while update firmware or software with special intervention such as power off/on device.
1.9 Analyze the device whether run the most application with root privilege.


2. Check the device whether has open peripheral interface such as USB, EMMC, UART etc.
2.1 Analyze the USB interface to check whether can run application without privilege through USB device.
	Also need to check whether allow diverse category USB type such as storage/network/UART etc.
2.2 Analyze the EMMC interface to check whether can run application without privilege through EMMC device.
2.3 Analyze the UART inferface to check whether can login in system without password or brute-force crack.

3. Check the web page whether has vulnerabilities.
   There is a global OWASP Testing Guide v4 here for reference: https://www.owasp.org/images/1/19/OTGv4.pdf
3.1 Analyze the login page to check whether can login with known username and password such as 'amdin' and '123456'.
    In general there was already known username and password list file for use.
3.2 Analyze the login page to check whether mandatory change the default password after the first login.
3.3 Analyze the login page to check input validation such as character limit with only number, alphabet, underline with fixed length.
3.4 Analyze the login page to check input validation such as buffer overflow, XSS, SQL Injection etc.
    Used tool such as Nikto or w3af to scan the web vulnerabilities.


4. Check the moblie application for this device that run on smartphone with remote control function.
4.1 Analyze the moblie application whether has the plaintext username and password, remote server credential.
    Used tool such as Apktool for android applicaion.
4.2 Analyze the moblie application whether transmit the message without encrypt.
    Used tool such as Wireshark or tcpdump.
4.3 Analyze the mobile application whether send the critial information such as application list, smartphone's contact list to backend server.
	Used tool such as Wireshark or tcpdump.
4.4 Analyze the mobile application whether send the critial log such as system information, key operation to backend server.
	Used tool such as Wireshark or tcpdump.
4.5 Analyze the device whether transmit the plaintext information to remote backend server.
    Used tool such as Wireshark or tcpdump.
4.6 Analyze the both the moblie applicattion and device whether used vulnerable version of fucntion or ciphering algorithm library such as TLS1.0.
    Used tool such as file, strings, openssl on Linux platform.

5. Check kinds of ineternet service such as telnet, ftp, ssh, snmp, dhcp, UPnP, dns, SMB, NTP, voip such as SIP etc.
5.1 Enumeration and identification the service information with port scan method.
	Used tool such as nmap, masscan, scapy to scan open ports and application information commonly.
5.2 Analyze the SMB with tool such as smbtree, smbstatus etc.
5.3 Analyze the DNS with tool such as rndc, dns-clean, dnsmasq etc.
5.4 Analyze the SNMP with tool such as snmp-check etc.
5.5 Analyze the service information with vulnerabilities.
	  Used tool such as Nmap, Metasploit, information search with https://www.exploit-db.com and http://cve.mitre.org.
	
	
6. Check the default Firewall/IDS setting with Dos, DDoS attack etc.
6.1 Analyze the rule of firmware whether saved in unsecure place.
6.2 Analyze the whether the default firewall can mitigates the affect of Dos, DDoS.
    Used tool such as Scapy to send the flood packet and check the status of system.
6.3 Analyze the whether the firewall enabled whitelist mechanism.
    Used tool such as Scapy to send the special IP scope packet and check the feedback.
6.4 Analyze the whether IDS transmit the plaintext message or log to remote server or custom user.
    Used tool such as Wireshark.

x. Check the device with kinds of wireless technology such as Bluetooth, Wifi, LTE/5G etc.
7. Check the Bluetooth device with vulnerabilities.
7.1 Bluetooth device type.
	Silent: The device will never accept any connections, It just monitors BT traffic.
	Private: The device cannot be discovered but connection will be accepted only if the Master device know it's BD_ADDR.
	Public: The device can be both discovered and connected to.
7.2 Security mode.
	None: The Bluetooth device does not include securre option.
	Service Level: Two Bluetooth devices can establish a nonsecure ACL link.
	Link Level: Secure initiated when an ACL link is established.
	After EDR2.0, Secure Simple Pairing(SSP) introduces the public key to improve the security.
	Bluetooth authenticates devices, not user.
7.3 Analyze the bluetooth device vulnerabilities with diverse tool here.
    Analyze the config file whether saved in unsecure place.
    Used tools such as hciconfig, hcitool, sdptool, l2ping to gather the information on Linux platform.
	Used tool based on Linux BlueZ stack with Python tool here: https://github.com/karulis/pybluez
	Search vulnerable information with https://www.exploit-db.com and http://cve.mitre.org.
7.4 Attack the Bluetooth device such as with following tool etc.
	Used tool for BlueBorne vulnerabilities attack with https://github.com/ArmisSecurity/blueborne
	Used tool for bluetooth phonebook attack with https://github.com/boos/bluesnarfer
	
8. Check the Wifi device with vulnerabilities.
8.1 According the IEEE Std 802.11-2016, just list key information here.
	Mode: AP, STA
    Frame type : Management, Control, Data, Extension
	Security methods: WEP, WPA1(TKIP), WAPI, WPA2(CCMP), WPA3(SAE)， IEEE 802.1X Authentication(RADIUS)
8.2 Analyze the Wifi device vulnerabilities with diverse tool here.
	Analyze the config file whether saved in unsecure place.
    Used tools such as ifconfig, iwconfig, iw, wireshark, airmon-ng, airodump-ng
	Search vulnerable information with https://www.exploit-db.com and http://cve.mitre.org.
8.3 Analyze the whether enabled default AP function with default password such as '12345678'.
8.4 Attack the Wifi device such as with following tool etc.
    Used tool for WEP and other kinds of WPA1/WPA2 attack with http://www.aircrack-ng.org
    Used tool for WPA PSK attack with https://github.com/FluxionNetwork/fluxion.git

	
9. Check the LTE and 5G device with vulnerabilities.
9.1 According the 3GPP specification, just list key information here.
    5G system is complete IP based end-to-end network architecture.
    It key feature and network capabilities is such as latency, data rate, mobility, reliability, security.
    Mode for LTE:
    UE:  This is the terminal equipment that can be embedded in smartphone or other device such as PAD, CPE, Smart Home etc.
    EPS: This is the core network that include eNB, MME, S-GW, P-GW, HSS etc.	
    Mode for 5G:
    UE:  This is the terminal device similar with LTE.
    5GC: This is the core network that include gNB, ng-eNB, AMF, UPF, SMF.
    Connect Mode:
	  UE---------Radio-------eNB/gNB-----Ethernet/Fiber-------EPC/5GC-------Ethernet/Fiber-------Internet
9.2 Device security threat.
	a. Inconsistent security policies such as use the rule of firewall while deployment kinds of devices.
	b. Information or data leakage in shared media such as exchange the message by Internet without encypt.
	c. Minimal device management requirement such as IoT field.
	d. Save the readable data in disposed devices such as on external SD card or cloud.
	e. inter-application data leakage such as authorization by third party aplication or save data with cloud network.
	f. VOIP related vulnerabilities such SIP/H.323. 
9.3 Security mode.
	In general, the security attack method is Distributed denial of service(DDoS) and Advance persistent threat(APT) for core network(telecommunications carriers).
	This means the most vulnerabilities is based on internet application attack.
9.4 Terminal equipment(UE) security.
   Smartphone(iOS, Androind security. )
   CPE and IoT(OS such as Linux, FreeRTOS, QNX security. Common security such as User Identity, Authentication, Authorization, Shared information, Faked eNB etc)
9.4 Core Network(EPC/5GC) security.
   EPS security such as related eNB, MME, S-GW, P-GW, HSS etc.
   5GC security such as related gNB, ng-eNB, AMF, UPF, SMF etc.
   5G core network will based on Hypervisor, SDN, NFV later then will expose more security threat.
   For example, NAS attack point such as attach, detach, bearer activation, tracking area update, authentication procedures etc.
9.5 Layer security.
    LTE UE:   PHY, MAC, RLC, PDCP, RRC, NAS
	  LTE CORE: PHY, MAC, RLC, PDCP, RRC, NAS, MME, S-GW, P-GW, HSS
	  5G  UE:   PHY, MAC, RLC, PDCP, SDAP, RRC, NAS
	  5G CORE:  PHY, MAC, RLC, PDCP, SDAP, RRC, NAS, AMF, UPF, SMF
	
